<img src="/doc/images/200x200.png" align="right">

# Contributing to Contextual

Firstly, thank you for taking an interesting in contributing! Contextual is an
open-source project, and welcomes contributions in the form of feature code,
bug reports and fixes, tests, feature suggestions and anything else which may
help to make it better software.

## Before Starting

It&rsquo;s a good idea to [discuss](https://discord.gg/7b6mpF6Qcf) potential
changes with one of the maintainers before starting work. Although efforts are
made to document future development work using the [issue tracker](/issues), it
will not always be up-to-date, and the maintainers may have useful information
to share on plans.

The worst-case scenario would be for a contributor to spend a large amount of
time producing a PR, only for it to be rejected by the maintainers because it
is not consistent with their plans. A quick conversation before starting work
can save a lot of time.

If a response is not forthcoming in the [Discord
chatroom](https://discord.gg/7b6mpF6Qcf), contacting one of the project
maintainers directly _but publicly_ may help. Please __do not__ contact the
maintainers privately, as it misses a good opportunity to share knowledge with
a wide audience. Jon Pretty can usually be contacted [on
X](https://x.com/propensive).

All development work&mdash;whether bugfixing or implementing new
features&mdash;should have a corresponding issue before work starts. If you
have commit rights to the `propensive/contextual` repository, push to a branch named
after the issue number, prefixed with `issue/`, for example, `issue/423`.

## Contribution standards

Pull requests should try to follow the coding style of existing code in the
repository. They are unlikely to be rejected on grounds of formatting, except
in extreme cases. Contextual does not use automatic code-formatting because it
has proven to produce unreliable results (and furthermore, hand-formatting is
not particularly laborious).

Unfortunately an official coding style guide does not yet exist.

Any code that is inconsistently formatted will be fixed before merging, without
complaint.

Pull requests should have at least one review before being merged. When opening
a PR, contributors are welcome to suggest a reviewer. Pull requests should be
left in _draft_ mode until they are believed to be ready for review.

For code contributions, we prefer pull requests with corresponding tests. But
we should not _let perfect be the enemy of the good_. Changes which break
existing tests, however, are likely to be rejected during review.

## Reporting issues

New issues are welcome, both as bug reports and feature suggestions. More
detail is preferable, and the clearest and most detailed reports will most
likely be addressed sooner, but a short report from a busy developer is still
preferred over a bug we never hear about. We will ask for more detail in triage
if it&rsquo;s needed.

## Conduct

Contributors and other participants in online discussions are expected to be
polite, on-topic and to nurture a pleasant development environment for all
Contextual&rsquo;s users. Propensive O&Uuml; reserves the right to censure
and&mdash;in extreme cases&mdash;ban users whose behavior, in their opinion, is
detrimental toward this goal. But individualism is valued, and nobody should
feel constrained in how they express themselves.

